Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to Lang Chain.

Uh, in our previous video, uh, I had actually shown you the example like what we will be specifically

doing step by step, you know, from data ingestion to data transformation, then converting the text

into vectors, finally storing it in a vector store db, and then probably creating a retrieval chain

along with prompt template, we send that entire data to the LM model.

And finally we get the response.

Now over here what we will be doing is that we will be exploring each and every step and how we can

actually implement with the help of Lang Chain.

The first step that we are going to discuss about is data ingestion.

Right?

And when I say data ingestion, it's more about loading a data set from a specific source.

Right.

We also say it as uh, you know, document loaders in Lang chain.

So uh, we'll be discussing about this.

We will be doing some practical implementation.

I'll be taking different types of files, and I'll show you that how we can read that particular data

from that and convert into a document.

Okay.

So all those things will be probably discussed.

So first step we'll go with this.

Then we will uh as we go ahead we'll be seeing other modules also.

So let me quickly, uh show you over here, I have actually created a data ingestion dot ipynb file,

and I have selected my virtual environment.

Um, one very important thing that you should remember.

Whenever I really need to work with this ipynb file, I need to have a ipykernel.

Okay, so that is the reason I have already done the installation in the requirements.txt.

So this is perfect till here.

Now let me do one thing.

Let me also go ahead and show you the documentation.

Okay.

Now it's really important that you understand.

Or you have the habit of reading the language in documentation.

Because this documentation is just like you have each and every thing available over here.

And, uh, the only problem I see while following the documentation is that it is completely scattered.

So that is the reason when I am actually creating this course, I will create in such a way that it

will be having the videos in a ordered way, so that you understand step by step how things are basically

getting implemented in generative AI application, specifically for the generative AI application.

So here, uh, as I said, we are going to discuss about data ingestion.

In that data ingestion we are going to discuss about document loaders.

Now what exactly is document loader.

It's just like what are the different ways to load different, different data sources.

And here if I just see on the left hand side there are multiple different ways you can load a table.

You can load amplify dataset, you can load or save.

You can probably go ahead and see about uh, uh, let's say a browser base is there, Cassandra is there.

You'll be able to load from this particular data set.

You want to load it from CSV.

You have this particular option if you want to go ahead and load it from web based.

So so many different different options are there.

If you want hugging face data set, you can go ahead and load it.

If you want to load images you can go ahead and load it, you know.

So that is why I said that Langston is an amazing framework.

And, uh, it's like whatever document loaders you really want to load the data from, you can just

go ahead and refer this.

Okay.

In this video I will be showing you some of the good examples, most common examples that we use with

respect to data ingestion using document loaders.

Uh, anyhow, tomorrow, if you have any other requirements you can definitely see this particular documentation.

So here I have already given the link for the documentation.

You can start the coding from here okay.

Now let's go ahead and uh let's start this and I'll be showing you multiple ways of doing the data injection

technique itself.

Basically, we'll be seeing multiple ways how you can load the data set.

Okay.

So the first uh, technique that I'm actually going to use is something called as text loader.

Okay.

Now text loader actually helps you to load any types of txt files.

So I have created this folder called as data ingestion.

And inside this I have created this particular speech dot txt folder file.

Okay.

And in this I have just put some information of a speech over here from Wikipedia, and I've just copied

and pasted it okay.

Now what I'm actually going to do inside this.

And again I also have a PDF file.

I also have an XML file.

We'll also try to read that as we go ahead.

So this speech this text dot loader, what it does is that it actually helps you to load any speech

dot txt file like any.

TXT file in short.

Right.

So here I've created this speech dot txt file.

So it will actually allow you to load this.

Now how do you do that.

So for that what I will do I will go ahead and write from long chain underscore community okay.

Now this long chain underscore community we need to make sure that we go ahead and install in the requirement

dot txt okay.

So I will quickly go ahead and press shift tab.

And let me just quickly upload uh or run this uh requirement dot txt file.

Okay.

So I have to be in my virtual environment.

Please remember that.

And then I will go ahead and write pip install minus r requirements.txt.

So once I do this I've already done the installation.

So it shows me requirement already satisfied okay.

So here in our school community we are specifically going to use.

Now I will go ahead and import from luncheon underscore community.

We have something called as document loaders.

Okay.

Now inside this you have something called as text loader.

Now in the web page in the website we saw different different types of loaders.

Right.

Document loaders.

Everything is available inside this long chain underscore community dot document loaders okay.

Please remember that now after I import this text loader.

Right.

What I really need to do I need to initialize the text loader.

And here I will give my file path.

File path is nothing but inside this.

Since I'm working inside this folder I have something called as speech dot txt.

So here what we can basically do is that we can go ahead and write speech dot txt okay speech dot txt.

Now here what I'm going to do I'll go and initialize this as a variable called as loader okay.

Now when we are reading it okay let's let's go ahead and execute this.

And if I go ahead and execute it shows that hey loader is nothing, but it is a document loader of a

text at this specific memory location.

This is fine okay.

Now when we are loading this right, entire the content inside the speech dot text will be converted

into a documents only when we go ahead and write loader dot load function.

So loader load function will basically help you to create this text documents.

Okay we'll see to it okay.

And then finally I will go ahead and print the text documents.

So here you can see this actually is my document.

And it has this page content variable.

And all the text inside that txt file is inside this page underscore content okay.

And here you can see that metadata source is nothing but speech dot txt.

So in short what it has done is that it has loaded this entire speech dot txt in one document that is

available over here.

Okay, so this is one very easy way of loading a txt file.

Okay.

Now let's go ahead and do one more thing.

Uh, I will just try to show you with respect to py pdf like how do you read a PDF file.

So reading a PDF file.

Okay so here what I'll be writing I'll again go ahead and write from Langston underscore community dot

document loaders okay.

Again.

And this time I'm going to import py pdf py pdf loader.

So py pdf loader basically loads the PDF, any PDF that you are giving inside this.

So I'll go ahead and initialize py pdf loader.

And here I'm just going to go ahead and write attention dot pdf.

So this is my PDF name that I have and this PDF I have actually taken a research paper uh of transformer

attention is all you need.

I hope you may have heard about it.

And again it was available in arXiv.

Uh, arXiv website.

Okay.

Now here what I'm actually going to do is that I'll go ahead and create a variable called as loader.

And again to get the documents I will just go ahead and write loader dot load.

So once I do that so finally you'll be able to see this will be my docs.

So it will go and read from this particular PDF.

Now it says hey I am getting an error.

He's saying that hey please go ahead and install py pip PDF.

Now let me quickly go to the requirement dot txt again the error that we are seeing.

We really need to fix the error.

So I here I'll go ahead and install this pip pdf.

So quickly.

Let's go ahead and write pip install minus t uh requirement dot txt.

Now the installation will start and here you can see the pip pdf is installed.

So I will close this quickly.

And now let's go ahead and execute it once again.

So now I think it should be loading it.

And here you can see with respect to all the PDF it has been able to read each and everything.

Right.

So here was my first page I guess then this was my second page.

Third page, fourth page.

Like this I'm able to see all these things.

And the return type is basically docs document.

So if I go ahead and see type of docs here, you will be able to see that, hey it is a list.

Uh, list of documents.

So let's say if I go ahead and write type of docs of zero here, you can say that it is a document type,

okay.

And inside the document type you have this attribute called as page content.

And at the end you'll be able to see some kind of metadata okay.

It's a very big PDF.

So let's not not explore that.

So that at the end if you probably scroll till the end okay.

If I just go ahead and scroll it till the end.

Right.

You'll be able to see the metadata source attention dot PDF.

And this is page one.

So every page is basically converted into a document over here okay.

Perfect.

So this is another way of reading a PDF file okay.

So I hope you got an idea with respect to this.

Uh till here.

Let's go ahead and do one more.

Amazing.

Uh, we will just try to use another document loader technique, and this time we are just going to

use something called as web based loader.

So here we are going to discuss about web based loader okay.

Again since we are just discussing how we can load the data set from different different data source.

Okay.

Now I will go ahead and write from long chain underscore community dot document loaders.

And here we are going to import web base loader.

Now web based loader is like let's say that you probably want to give any website okay.

It should be able to read the content from that particular website okay.

That is what we specifically do in this.

So let's take one example and this example URL I will show you by opening the browser itself.

Okay.

So let me quickly show this over here.

So let's say I'll go ahead and copy and paste it.

And let's consider this particular website.

This is a website which is uh, saying that hey LM powered autonomous agent, I have so and so information.

Everything is over here.

Okay.

Now, this is my entire website, and I want to load this entire content.

Okay.

So let me quickly go over here and let's go ahead and initialize this web based loader.

Now inside this web based loader the first parameter is something called as web underscore path.

Okay.

Now inside this we will be giving one path.

Let's say my URL is something like this.

And I'll paste it over here.

Okay so this is my URL okay.

And uh over here you'll be also able to see that when I'm using this particular URL.

Okay.

And let's let's try to execute this directly okay.

Here what I'm doing I'll just give this web path and let me go ahead and create a variable.

So let's see whether it will execute fast or not.

So here it says hey user agent variable not set.

Considering to identify your request okay no worries.

So what I will do over here?

I will go ahead and.

Okay, just a second.

I will just go ahead and put a comma and provide more parameters.

Okay.

Now this time the parameters that I am actually going to provide is with respect to the element.

So let's execute this first of all okay.

So here you can see that I have executed it over here okay.

And the reason why I have given comma because you can put any number of URLs over here since I have

used web paths, if you just use web path you can just give one URL.

Okay.

So here I have just given web paths and I've given this particular URL.

Okay.

Now let's go ahead and take this loader okay loader okay.

And I'll do dot load.

Once I do loader dot load you'll be able to see hey I have actually got the page content of the entire

page right.

So this is my entire page content.

So if I just go ahead and see my browser okay.

So here I've got this entire page content inside this okay.

Along with new line everything as such.

Okay.

And this is so amazing right.

You just by writing this two line you are able to get it.

One important thing that you need to remember is that here you also require beautiful soup.

Okay.

Uh, beautiful soup is one kind of library that you definitely require in whenever you are doing the

scrapping task in any of the project.

Okay.

So, uh, in order to execute or install this, uh, beautiful soup, you can just go ahead and write

this over here.

BS4.

Okay.

And I will just go ahead and press this.

Now let's quickly go ahead and do the requirement dot txt.

My BS4 will basically get installed.

That is nothing but beautifulsoup.

Now what I will do, I will go ahead and uh, close that particular terminal.

Now, what I am actually going to do over here is that let's make this and provide more parameters,

uh, based on our needs.

Okay.

Now, in order to provide more parameters over here, I can play with this web page based on what content

I want.

Right now, everything has been just.

Everything has been extracted like post archive, search tags, everything.

Let's say I will go ahead and inspect this okay.

Now when you go ahead and inspect this, let's say that I want some of the classes.

Let's consider I want a post title because I am interested in this okay I want post content.

Post content basically means I want this entire content from that.

And finally, uh, after this, I also want the post header.

Okay.

So let's say with respect to this three classes, I want the information from this particular page.

Okay.

So how do I give that.

That is what I'm actually going to show you now okay.

Just by using the same functionality.

So here what I'll be doing I'll be using this web path along with the path.

I will give more parameters.

The next parameter that we are going to use is something called as bs underscore kw args.

Okay.

Here I will be giving in the form of dictionary.

The first thing will be that I will try to give the parse underscore only will be nothing, but I'll

just go ahead and import BS four.

Let's go ahead and import BS four okay.

Uh beautiful soup four I will say hey parse only is equal to BS4 dot soup strainer.

Okay.

And just by giving this parameter I will be able to give my class.

So here I will write class underscore equal to.

Let me just go ahead and give which all uh classes I want I want post I want post post dot title okay.

Uh dash title then I also want post dash content and I also want post dash header.

Okay I want this three information.

And based on this particular three information, I need to retrieve the content from this particular

URL.

So I will just go ahead and execute it.

And this will now be my loaded or load.

And here you can see slash slash N has all removed because I just want that relevant text.

And this is how I'm also able to clean some of the information while I am loading all the information

over here.

Right.

And I hope you are able to understand with respect to this particular parameter.

And here you will be seeing that power of beautiful soup is amazing because you are able to retrieve

all the details itself.

Right.

So, uh, this was with respect to web based loader.

Okay.

Now there are also different different data ingestion technique which I will be showing you over here.

Let's go ahead and I'll show you two more important things okay.

One is with respect to the most famous because see, uh, this are safe.

Okay.

Now, our safe is something, uh, you know, if you don't know about our safe, if I go ahead and search,

attention is all you need.

Research paper.

Okay.

The default website that it will go will be in this particular website that is called a R shift.

Right.

And here we can go ahead and see the PDF.

What if I have the entire data source as ourself.

Right.

I will be able to directly communicate with this.

So how do I do that okay.

So first of all what I really need to do is that I will go ahead and install this, that is pip install

ourself.

Okay.

So for that I will go back to my code.

Go ahead and update my requirement dot txt with our chef.

Okay I will go ahead and open my terminal and quickly write pip install minus our requirement dot txt.

Now here you can see quickly it will get installed and my RCF packages also got installed.

Now in order to check it out whether our chef is working fine or not, I will go back to my data ingestion

and this time I'll just go ahead and write arXiv.

Okay.

And let's go ahead and copy this.

Let's say I want to copy this.

First of all I will go ahead and import my library document underscore loaders okay.

And then we will go ahead and load this particular paper.

The paper is nothing but the number is 1605.

And here you will be able to see that I will just go ahead and give this.

So here what I am doing.

I am initializing our shift loader.

The query parameter will be the paper number.

Let's see if I go ahead and search this okay.

If I go ahead and search this over here okay.

And press enter.

So here you can see hey this is the research paper that we are talking about right.

Similarly if you go ahead and see attention is all you need right.

So attention is all you need will also have some kind of numbers.

So if I go ahead and see hey attention is all you need okay.

And here is the number for this right.

Attention is all you need.

What is the number that we saw.

It was nothing but this one right.

So let's go ahead and search this okay.

So here I'm going to just go ahead and copy and paste that particular number over here.

Now I'm saying hey go ahead and take this particular query and load maximum two documents.

And I'm writing dot load.

And here is my length of documents.

So here I'm obviously so I'm getting an error.

Let's see what is the error.

It says hey pi mu PDF package not found.

Please install it with uh this uh by using this command which is called as pip install pi mu pdf.

Right.

So here I will just go ahead and copy this.

I will go ahead and update it over here.

And this is how you basically do it.

You can also do pip install right directly.

I'll quickly go ahead and do this installation.

Now this installation will take place.

And once this installation is taking place we will be able to go ahead and use it.

So I will close this now.

And now again I'll go ahead and execute it.

That's it.

I'm searching for this particular query.

It should be able to give me this particular documents from that entire research paper.

So he provided a proper attribution.

Google hereby grant so and so.

All the information is probably here, right?

The entire research paper is just given in the document.

And this is so amazing.

That is the reason I like long chain because it has almost document loader functionalities.

You want to ask if you want any kind of data source, Excel, CSV, TSV, whatever things you want,

there is a document loader for that.

Okay, now there is also one more.

If you want to go ahead and explore this, there is something called as Wikipedia.

Okay.

You can also go ahead and see Wikipedia okay.

So let me show you over here.

So Wikipedia for Wikipedia you need to go ahead and install Wikipedia over here.

Right.

So I will go ahead and install Wikipedia.

Quickly open this install it.

Right.

So I'm giving you a complete generic way how you can access it along with this.

Right.

So I will copy this quickly okay.

I will close it over here.

So I will go ahead and save Wikipedia Loader.

Then it says, hey, uh, based on any query that you search.

So I will just go ahead and execute instead of writing Hunter x Hunter, I will say, hey, uh, what?

Let's find out some information about generative AI, okay?

And I want this particular dogs.

And let's go ahead and print my docs.

Okay.

And here you have this automatically.

It will be loading two documents.

And here is the entire page content right.

Entire page content.

If I just go ahead and display docs you will also be able to see all this information.

Right.

So everything is over here and I think it should be giving you the page URL.

Also see page URL is also given.

This is the URL that is searched.

And just by using this.

Wow!

I think you should be able to feel very much happy because now any kind of data you'll be able to get

it.

And this is a completely free Wherever there is an API required, you can use the API.

Let's say I want to have a weather data.

So I need an API for this.

You can go to Weather Data Loader and probably create your API.

You can do that right.

So I hope you are able to understand the entire data ingestion technique with the help of document loaders.

I've shown you multiple examples.

Don't forget to check out the documentation again.

I've given the link over here.

Okay, at the end of the day, Lang Chen has actually included a lot of document loaders through which

you can ingest data from different different data sources.

Right.

So go ahead and explore.

Uh, I will see you all in the next video where I will be talking about once we take this entire document,

the next thing is that how we will be able to do the text splitting.

Right?

That is what I'm actually going to discuss about in my next video.

So yes, I will see you in the next video.

Thank you.

